Abstract

Purpose

   Breast cancer is the most frequently diagnosed malignancy in women
   worldwide. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are thought to serve as potential
   biomarkers in various cancers, including breast cancer.

Methods

   We evaluated the miRNA expression profiles in 1,083 breast cancer
   samples and 104 normal breast tissues from The Cancer Genome Atlas
   database. We used the edgeR package of R software to analyze the
   differentially expressed miRNAs in normal and cancer tissues, and
   screened survival-related miRNAs by Kaplan-Meier analysis. A receiver
   operating characteristic curve was generated to evaluate the accuracy
   of these miRNAs as molecular markers for breast cancer diagnosis.
   Furthermore, the functional role of these miRNAs was verified using
   cell experiments. Targets of candidate miRNAs were predicted using 9
   online databases, and Gene Ontology (GO) functional annotation and
   pathway analyses were conducted using Database for Annotation,
   Visualization and Integrated Discovery online tool.

Results

   A total of 68 miRNAs showed significantly different expression patterns
   between the groups (p < 0.001), and 13 of these miRNAs were
   significantly associated with poor survival (p < 0.05). Three miRNAs
   with high specificity and sensitivity, namely, miR-148b-3p, miR-190b,
   and miR-429, were selected. In vitro experiments showed that the
   overexpression of these 3 miRNAs significantly promoted the
   proliferation and migration of MDA-MB-468 and T47D cells and reduced
   the apoptosis of T47D cells. GO and pathway enrichment analyses
   revealed that the targets of these dysregulated miRNAs were involved in
   many critical cancer-related biological processes and pathways.

Conclusion

   The miR-148b-3p, miR-190b, and miR-429 may serve as potential
   diagnostic and prognostic markers for breast cancer. This study
   demonstrated the roles of these 3 miRNAs in the initiation and
   progression of breast cancer.

   Keywords: Biological marker, Biological phenomenon, Breast neoplasm,
   MicroRNA

INTRODUCTION

   Breast cancer, the most common malignant disease in women, is the
   second leading cause of cancer-related death [[45]1,[46]2]. According
   to the latest statistical report in China, the number of new breast
   cancer incidences and related deaths in China each year accounts for
   12.2% and 9.6% cases in the world, respectively [[47]2]. About 210,000
   new breast cancer cases are reported in China every year, and the rate
   is increasing every year by 2%. An estimated 2.5 million people will be
   suffering from breast cancer in China by 2021 [[48]2]. Although the
   improvement in the early examination and diagnosis techniques and
   advances in surgery and comprehensive adjuvant therapy have
   significantly improved the prognosis of patients, the overall survival
   (OS) rate is not ideal. Accumulating evidences indicate that the early
   diagnosis and treatment result in favorable prognoses [[49]3].
   Therefore, it is crucial to identify novel diagnostic biomarkers and
   prognostic factors with high sensitivity and specificity to meet the
   clinical requirements for breast cancer.

   MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are endogenous small-noncoding RNAs of 18–23
   nucleotides that play a significant role in the regulation of gene
   expression [[50]4]. miRNAs bind to the 3′-untranslated region of the
   target messenger RNAs (mRNAs) and degrade or repress their translation.
   Numerous studies have revealed that miRNAs perform pivotal functions in
   diverse biological processes such as cell growth, differentiation,
   metabolism, and apoptosis [[51]5]. Moreover, miRNAs are involved in
   multiple cancer-related cell signaling pathways, including those
   associated with breast cancer [[52]6]. The aberrant expression of
   miRNAs in breast cancer has been previously reported and these may act
   as either tumor suppressors or oncogenes [[53]7], suggestive of their
   potential role in the diagnosis and prognosis of breast cancer [[54]8].
   However, most studies have used microarrays or real-time quantitative
   polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR), which are limited in terms of
   range of detection. Furthermore, the small sample size and lack of
   sensitivity and specificity of candidate miRNAs have limited the
   clinical application of these biomarkers [[55]9]. Thus, it is essential
   to identify new miRNAs and understand their mechanism of action in the
   control of various steps involved in tumor malignancy and molecular
   pathways involved in breast cancer progression.

   The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) is a large database of cancer and tumor
   genetic mapping programs sponsored by the U.S. government and includes
   gene expression, epigenome, non-coding RNA expression, and clinical
   data. In the present study, we first identified the differentially
   expressed miRNAs between breast cancer and normal tissues through the
   analysis of TCGA database. Thirteen miRNAs that were significantly
   associated with patient survival were obtained and of these, 3 miRNAs
   (miR-148b-3p, miR-190b, and miR-429) were eventually used as a
   signature for the diagnosis of breast cancer. The effects of these 3
   miRNAs on biological behaviors of breast cancer cells were also
   analyzed.

METHODS

Data collection

   The miRNA-Seq data sets of 1,083 breast cancer and 104 normal samples
   were collected from TCGA ([56]http://cancergenome.nih.gov/). Clinical
   information of the samples in TCGA was matched with the data of miRNAs.
   There were no concerns of ethical issues, as the data were retrieved
   from TCGA. We extracted the expression matrix of miRNAs using Perl
   Script, and the edgeR package of R software (R Foundation, Vienna,
   Austria) was used to detect the differentially expressed miRNAs and
   their relative fold change. Survival-related miRNAs were screened by
   Kaplan-Meier analysis and a receiver operating characteristic (ROC)
   curve was generated to calculate the area under the curve (AUC) at 95%
   confidence interval (95% CI).

Bioinformatic prediction of miRNA target genes and enrichment analysis

   The potential targets of candidate miRNAs were predicted using 9 online
   databases, including miRDB ([57]http://mirdb.org/), miRTarBase
   ([58]http://mirtarbase.mbc.nctu.edu.tw/), TargetScan
   ([59]http://www.targetscat.org/vert_72/), RNA22
   ([60]https://cm.jefferson.edu/rna22/Precomputed/OptionController?specie
   s=HomoSapiens&type=mRNA&version=MB21E78v2), PicTar
   ([61]https://pictar.mdcberlin.de/), Tarbase
   ([62]http://carolina.imis.athenainnovation.gr/diana_tools/web/index.php
   ?r=tarbasev8%2Findex), PolymiRTSe
   ([63]http://compbio.uthsc.edu/miRSNP/search.php), miRBase
   ([64]http://www.mirbase.org/), and MiRNA
   ([65]http://starbase.sysu.edu.cn/targetSite.php). Only the target genes
   predicted by at least 4 databases were chosen. Gene Ontology (GO)
   functional annotation and pathway analyses were conducted with Database
   for Annotation, Visualization and Integrated Discovery online tool
   ([66]https://david.ncifcrf.gov) and visualized by Cytoscape 3.4.0
   software (Institute for Systems Biology, Seattle, USA).

Clinical specimens and cell lines

   The study included 75 patients with breast cancer that underwent
   surgery at the First People's Hospital of Yunnan Province from 2015 to
   2017. The breast cancer tissues and adjacent normal tissues were
   confirmed by a pathologist. Tissue samples were immediately stored in
   liquid nitrogen after the surgery. The protocol was approved by the
   Ethical Committee of First People's Hospital of Yunnan Province (No.
   2015JC006). This work was carried out in accordance with The Code of
   Ethics of the World Medical Association (Declaration of Helsinki) and
   informed consent was obtained from all human subjects. Six human breast
   cancer cell lines (MDA-MB-468, MDA-MB-231, MCF-7, T47D, SK-BR-3, and
   HCC-1806) and 1 normal mammary epithelial cell line (MCF-10A) were
   purchased from the Peking Union Medical College Cell Culture Center
   (Beijing, China) and cultured at 37°C in a humidified incubator with 5%
   CO[2]. MDA-MB-468, MDA-MB-231, and MCF-7 cells were cultured in
   Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium (DMEM; C11995500BT, Thermo Fisher
   Scientific, Waltham, USA) supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum
   (FBS, 10099141, Thermo Fisher Scientific), while T47D, SK-BR-3, and
   HCC-1806 cells were maintained in Roswell Park Memorial Institute-1640
   medium (C11875500BT, Thermo Fisher Scientific) supplemented with 10%
   FBS. MCF-10A cells were cultured in DMEM/F12 (12500-062, Thermo Fisher
   Scientific) medium supplemented with 10% horse serum (HyClone, Utah,
   USA), 1 mg/mL epidermal growth factor (Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany),
   1 mg/mL cholera toxin (Merck KGaA), 20 mg/mL insulin (Merck KGaA), and
   1 mg/mL hydrocortisone (Merck KGaA).

RNA extraction and stem-loop RT-qPCR for the detection of miRNAs

   Total RNA from tissues and cell lines was extracted using TRIzol
   Reagent (T9424, Merck KGaA) according to the manufacturer's
   instructions. Single-stranded complementary DNA was synthesized from
   RNA using GoScript™ Reverse Transcription System (Promega, Wisconsin,
   USA). For qPCR, a specific forward primer was designed for each miRNA
   and reverse primers were targeted to the stem-loop sequence. Expression
   levels of miRNAs were analyzed by qPCR using SYBR Green Master Mix
   (Roche, Basel, Switzerland), and U6 was used as an internal control.
   The expression level of each gene was calculated and normalized using
   the 2^−ΔΔct method relative to U6 expression. The primer sequences used
   were as follows: hsa-U6 forward, 5′-CTCGCTTCGGCAGCACA-3′ and reverse,
   5′-AACGCTTCACGAATTTGCGT-3′; hsa-miR-148b-3p forward,
   5′-TCTCTCCAGTCTACTCAGTGCATC-3′ and reverse,
   5′-TATGGTTTTGACGACTGTGTGAT-3′; hsa-miR-190b forward,
   5′-GGCGACGAGTGATATGTTTGATAT-3′ and reverse
   5′-TATGGTTGTTCACGACTCCTTCAC-3′; and hsa-miR-429 forward,
   5′-CCGCGCTAATACTGTCTGG-3′ and reverse 5′-GTGCACGCTCCGAGGT-3′.

Transfection

   Cells were transfected with 50 nM of miRNA mimic or 100 nM miRNA
   inhibitor and their corresponding negative controls (RiboBio,
   Guangzhou, China) using TransIntro EL transfection reagent (TransGen
   Biotech, Beijing, China), as per the procedures described in the
   manufacturer's instructions.

Cell proliferation assay

   Cells were seeded in 24-well plates and after 48 hours of transfection,
   5-ethynyl-2′-deoxyuridine (EdU) was used to measure the proliferation
   of breast cancer cells. Cells were exposed to 25 mM of EdU (RiboBio)
   for 2 hours at 37°C and fixed with 4% paraformaldehyde in
   phosphate-buffered saline (PBS). After permeabilization with 0.5%
   Triton-X, the cells were reacted with Apollo reaction cocktail
   (RiboBio), for 30 minutes, followed by staining with Hoechst 33342 for
   30 minutes and visualization with inverted microscopy (TS100, Nikon,
   Tokyo, Japan). Image Pro Plus 6.0 software (Media Cybernetics,
   Washington, D.C., USA) was used to count the number of cells and to
   evaluate cell proliferation. Percentage of EdU-positive cells was
   calculated as (EdU-positive cells/Hoechst-stained cells) × 100%.

Apoptosis analysis

   The apoptotic rate of cells was measured using Annexin V-fluorescein
   isothiocyanate Apoptosis Detection Kit (11988549001, Roche) according
   to the manufacturer's instructions. Cells were seeded in 12-well plates
   and transfected with miRNA mimics or inhibitor. After 48 hours, the
   harvested cells were incubated in a buffer supplemented with 1 μL
   Annexin V and 2 μL propidium iodide for 30 minutes at 15°C and analyzed
   by flow cytometry (Becton Dickinson, Franklin Lakes, USA).

Western blot analysis

   Protein lysates were separated using sodium dodecyl sulfate
   polyacrylamide electrophoresis gels and transferred onto polyvinylidene
   fluoride membranes (Merck KGaA), followed by incubation with primary
   antibodies, including poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP; CST, 9542S,
   1:1000) and glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (ABclonal, AC001,
   1:1000) overnight at 4°C. The membranes were washed thrice with
   Tris-buffered saline and Tween-20 for 10 minutes and incubated with
   secondary antibodies for 2 hours at room temperature. The protein bands
   were examined with Immobilon Western Chemiluminescent reagent (Merck
   KGaA) and images were captured with a chemiluminescence imaging system
   (Tanon 5200, Shanghai, China).

Wound healing assay

   Wound healing assay was used to assess the migratory ability of tumor
   cells. Cells (3 × 10^5 cells/well) were seeded in a 12-well plate and
   transfected with miRNA mimics or inhibitor after overnight incubation.
   After 6 hours, the cell layer was scratched using a pipette tip and
   washed twice with PBS. These cells were cultured for 24 hours with 1%
   low serum medium. Images of cell morphology were captured at initiation
   time under Olympus microscope (Olympus Corporation, Tokyo, Japan). The
   migratory ability was quantified and normalized by relative gap
   distance.

Transwell assays

   After transfection for 6 hours, the cells were seeded in 6.5 mm
   transwell chambers with 8 μm pores (3422, Corning Incorporated, New
   York, USA). The upper chambers were filled with 200 μL of transfected
   cells (8 × 10^4 cells), and the lower chambers were filled with 500 μL
   of complete medium. After 24  hours of incubation, the non-migratory
   cells that remained on the upper surface were removed with a cotton
   swab. The migrated cells on the lower surface of the membrane insert
   were fixed with 4% paraformaldehyde in PBS and stained with 0.1%
   crystal violet. The number of cells in the lower chamber was counted
   with light microscopy.

Statistical analyses

   Data were shown as the mean ± standard deviation (SD). All statistical
   analyses were conducted using SPSS version 20 software (IBM Corp.,
   Armonk, USA), GraphPad Prism 7 (GraphPad Software, La Jolla, USA), and
   R language (version 3.3.1; [67]http://www.r-project.org/; R
   Foundation). A value of p < 0.05 was considered statistically
   significant. All experiments were performed at least thrice with
   triplicate samples.

RESULTS

Selection of candidate miRNAs

   As shown in the flow chart ([68]Figure 1A), 1,083 breast cancer samples
   and 104 normal control breast tissue samples from TCGA database were
   analyzed. A total of 68 miRNAs showed significantly different
   expression patterns between groups ([69]Supplementary Table 1). Of
   these, 50 miRNAs were downregulated and 18 miRNAs showed upregulated
   expression in breast cancer specimens. In Kaplan-Meier analysis, 13
   miRNAs were significantly associated with poor survival ([70]Figure 1B
   and [71]Supplementary Figure 1). The ROC curve is a well-recognized
   statistical method widely used for the identification of disease
   prediction accuracy. Thirteen miRNAs were subjected to ROC curve
   analysis, and finally 3 miRNAs with an AUC value higher than 0.8 were
   selected. These included miR-148b-3p (AUC = 0.852; 95% CI, 0.819–0.885;
   p < 0.001), miR-190b (AUC = 0.854; 95% CI, 0.827–0.881; p < 0.001), and
   miR-429 (AUC = 0.936; 95% CI, 0.915–0.957; p < 0.001) ([72]Figure 1C).
   To improve the predictive value of miRNAs, we constructed a binary
   logistic regression model to evaluate the combination of these 3
   miRNAs. The miRNA signature showed improved accuracy for the prediction
   of breast cancer than each miRNA alone with an AUC value of 0.950 (95%
   CI, 0.930–0.971, p < 0.001) ([73]Figure 1C), while the diagnostic
   sensitivity and specificity reached 89.4% and 89.2%, respectively.
   Taken together, these results indicate that the 3 miRNAs exhibited
   reliable performance in the diagnosis of breast cancer.

Figure 1. Identification of the 3 miRNAs. (A) Overall workflow of the study.
(B) Kaplan-Meier survival curves showing different overall survival in groups
of patients with low and high miRNAs expression. (C) ROC curves analysis for
miR-148b-3p, miR-190b, and miR-429 differentiating tumor specimens from
normal specimens.

   [74]Figure 1
   [75]Open in a new tab

   miRNA = microRNA; HR = hazard ratio; CI = confidence interval; AUC =
   area under the curve; ROC = receiver operating characteristic.

Expression of miR-148b-3p, miR-190b, and miR-429 was enhanced in breast
cancer tissues and cell lines

   miR-148b-3p, miR-190b, and miR-429 showed high expression in TCGA
   database ([76]Figure 2A and [77]Supplementary Figure 2). We examined
   the expression levels of these 3 miRNAs using RT-qPCR in breast cancer
   samples. The pathological features of patients are presented in Table
   1. The outcome showed that the expression of the 3 miRNAs was higher in
   breast cancer tissues than in normal controls. Although no significant
   difference was observed between the groups, the changing trend of the 3
   miRNAs was consistent with the observations from TCGA database
   ([78]Figure 2B). Moreover, miR-148b-3p, miR-190b, and miR-429
   expression was further confirmed in breast cancer cell lines. As shown
   in [79]Figure 2C, miR-148b-3p and miR-190b were overexpressed in the 4
   breast cancer cell lines (MCF-7, T47D, SK-BR-3, MDA-MB-468, and
   HCC-1806) as compared with the normal mammary epithelial cell line
   (MCF-10A) but were downregulated in MDA-MB-231 cells ([80]Figure 2C).
   miR-429 expression was significantly upregulated in MCF-7, T47D,
   MDA-MB-468, and HCC-1806 cells but was downregulated in SK-BR-3 and
   MDA-MB-231 cells ([81]Figure 2C). These observations suggest that the
   biological and clinical implication of miRNAs may differ among breast
   cancer subtypes; hence, we carried out Kaplan-Meier analysis in
   different breast cancer subtypes based on TCGA database. We found that
   patients with high miR-148b-3p and miR-429 expression levels had worse
   OS than those with low-level expression in all subtypes
   ([82]Supplementary Figure 3A and B). However, in luminal A, basal-like,
   and normal breast-like groups, high expression of miR-190b correlated
   with better OS. On the other hand, luminal B and human epidermal growth
   factor receptor 2 (HER2) groups showed high expression of miR-190b that
   correlated with worse OS ([83]Supplementary Figure 3C).

Figure 2. The expression of miR-148b-3p, miR-190b, and miR-429 was enhanced
in breast cancer tissues and cell lines. (A) Expression levels of the 3
miRNAs in TCGA. (B) Expression levels of the 3 miRNAs were examined in breast
cancer samples. (C) Expression levels of the 3 miRNAs were examined in 7 cell
lines.

   [84]Figure 2
   [85]Open in a new tab

   TCGA = The Cancer Genome Atlas; miRNA = microRNA.

   ^*p < 0.05, ^†p < 0.01, ^‡p < 0.001 vs. MCF-10A using 1-way analysis of
   variance.

Effects of miR-148b-3p, miR-190b, and miR-429 on breast cancer cell
proliferation

   To investigate the influence of miR-148b-3p, miR-190b, and miR-429 on
   breast cancer cell proliferation, T47D and MDA-MB-468 cells were
   treated with these miRNA mimics and inhibitors and the expression of
   the 3 miRNAs was verified by RT-qPCR ([86]Supplementary Figure 4). Cell
   proliferation was detected with EdU assay. As shown in [87]Figure 3A,
   the proliferation ability of T47D cells significantly increased after
   the overexpression of miR-148b-3p, miR-190b, and miR-429, but opposite
   effects were observed after the silencing of these miRNAs. In
   MDA-MB-468 cells, these miRNA mimics could significantly promote
   proliferation and the inhibitors suppressed cell proliferation,
   although the results observed with miR-148b-3p and miR-429 showed no
   statistical difference ([88]Figure 3B).

Figure 3. Effect of miR-148b-3p, miR-190b and miR-429 on breast cancer cell
proliferation. The proliferative rate of T47D (A) and MDA-MB-468 (B)
transfected with miRNA-control, miRNA mimics or miRNA inhibitors.

   [89]Figure 3
   [90]Open in a new tab

   The data were representative of 3 technical repeats with the mean ±
   standard deviation.

   miRNA = microRNA; EdU = 5-Ethynyl-2′-deoxyuridine.

   ^*p < 0.05, ^†p < 0.001 vs. control using 1-way analysis of variance.

Effect of miR-148b-3p, miR-190b, and miR-429 on breast cancer cell apoptosis

   To determine the effect of miR-148b-3p, miR-190b, and miR-429 on breast
   cancer cell apoptosis, we performed flow cytometric analysis. The
   results revealed the obvious decrease in the apoptosis of T47D cells
   transfected with miRNA mimics, while the apoptosis rate increased for
   the cells treated with miRNA inhibitors ([91]Figure 4A). Western
   blotting results also confirmed that miR-148b-3p, miR-190b, and miR-429
   inhibitors promoted PARP cleavage ([92]Figure 4B).

Figure 4. Effect of miR-148b-3p, miR-190b and miR-429 on breast cancer cell
apoptosis. A. The influence of miRNAs on T47D cells apoptosis was evaluated
by flow cytometry. B. The PARP and cleaved PARP protein levels were measured
after transfection with miRNA inhibitors in T47D cells.

   [93]Figure 4
   [94]Open in a new tab

   The data were representative of 3 technical repeats with the mean ±
   standard deviation.

   PARP = poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase; miRNA = microRNA; GAPDH =
   glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase.

   ^*p < 0.05, ^†p < 0.01 vs. control using 1-way analysis of variance.

Effect of miR-148b-3p, miR-190b, and miR-429 on breast cancer cell migration

   Wound healing assay was used to evaluate the effects of miR-148b-3p,
   miR-190b, and miR-429 on the migratory behavior of MDA-MB-468 cells. As
   shown in [95]Figure 5A and B, miRNA mimics significantly increased cell
   migration, while the miRNA inhibitors dramatically decreased the
   migration of treated cells. The analysis of the results of the above
   experiments showed that miR-190b exerted the most significant effects
   on cell proliferation, apoptosis, and migration. Therefore, we selected
   MDA-MB-231 cells with low expression of miR-190b for verification. We
   found that the overexpression of miR-190b dramatically decreased the
   migratory ability of these cells ([96]Figure 5C). To confirm the above
   observations, a transwell assay was performed; the number of cells
   passing through the inserts was significantly lower in the
   miR-190b-overexpressing group than in the control group ([97]Figure
   5D).

Figure 5. Effect of miR-148b-3p, miR-190b and miR-429 on breast cancer cell
migration. The migration capacity of MDA-MB-468 cell transfected with miRNA
mimics (A) or miRNA inhibitors (B) was detected by using wound-healing assay.
(C) The capacity of MDA-MB-231 cell migration was decreased after treatment
with miR-190b mimic based on the result of wound-healing assay. D. The
ability of cell migration in MDA-MB-231 cells transfected with miR-190b mimic
or inhibitor based on transwell. The data were representative of 3 technical
repeats with the mean ± standard deviation.

   [98]Figure 5
   [99]Open in a new tab

   miRNA = microRNA.

   ^*p < 0.05, ^†p < 0.01, and ^‡p < 0.001 vs. control using 1-way
   analysis of variance.

Target prediction and enrichment analysis

   To investigate the mechanisms underlying miR-148b-3p, miR-190b, and
   miR-429 functions, 9 online databases were scanned to predict target
   genes. We gathered target genes predicted by at least 4 algorithms to
   obtain 405 target genes for miR-148b-3p, 76 target genes for miR-190b,
   and 299 target genes for miR-429 ([100]Supplementary Table 2). These
   genes were subjected to GO and pathway enrichment analyses
   ([101]Supplementary Tables 3, [102]4, [103]5). The result revealed that
   the targets of candidate miRNAs were involved in several critical
   cancer-related pathways, including transforming growth factor
   (TGF)-beta signaling pathway, Wnt signaling pathway, p53 pathway, p38
   mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway and mammalian target of
   rapamycin (mTOR) signaling pathway ([104]Figure 6).

Figure 6. Interaction network of lncRNA, mRNA and pathways in breast cancer
tumors. Each hexagon indicates miRNA. Each ellipse indicates mRNA. Each
rhombus indicates pathways.

   [105]Figure 6
   [106]Open in a new tab

   lncRNA = long non-coding RNA; mRNA =messenger RNA; miRNA = microRNA.

DISCUSSION

   At present, breast cancer is the most prevalent cancer among women and
   is the leading cause of cancer-related deaths among females [[107]10].
   Clinical data show that early diagnosis and treatment may be conducive
   for the cure and prognosis of patients and can reduce the suffering in
   breast cancer patients [[108]3]. However, the lack of relevant clinical
   biomarkers with good sensitivity and specificity has limited the early
   diagnosis and prognosis of breast cancer. Previous studies have
   reported that miRNAs play vital roles in the initiation and progression
   of breast cancer and that certain miRNAs may act as potential
   diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers [[109]11]. However, these miRNAs
   have not been widely exploited for clinical application, owing to the
   use of different profiling platforms. Some studies have employed
   microarray or RT-qPCR analyses, which generate signatures based on the
   available number of miRNAs [[110]12,[111]13]. Some other studies have
   included a limited number of patients and lacked effective clinical
   data [[112]14].

   TCGA is a large database of cancer and tumor genetic mapping programs
   sponsored by the U.S. government and includes data from more than 1,000
   patients with breast cancer. In this study, we used the available data
   from TCGA and applied stringent filtering criteria to obtain highly
   sensitive and specific biomarkers. We first used the edgeR package of R
   language (R Foundation) to screen differentially expressed miRNAs,
   followed by the analysis of survival curves using the first 68 miRNAs
   according to the clinical information of patients with breast cancer.
   As a result, 13 miRNAs showed significant correlation with the survival
   time of patients. Furthermore, ROC curves were used to evaluate the
   accuracy of these 13 miRNAs as molecular markers for the diagnosis of
   breast cancer; 3 miRNAs with high specificity and sensitivity (p <
   0.001, AUC > 0.8) were selected, including miR-148b-3p (AUC = 0.852;
   95% CI, 0.819-0.885; p < 0.001), miR-190b (AUC = 0.854; 95% CI,
   0.827–0.881; p < 0.001), and miR-429 (AUC = 0.936; 95% CI, 0.915–0.957;
   p < 0.001). The ROC curve of the combination of the 3 differentially
   expressed miRNAs showed an extremely high diagnostic accuracy with an
   AUC value of 0.950 (95% CI, 0.930–0.971; p < 0.001). Together, the data
   led us to conclude that the 3 miRNAs may serve as diagnostic and
   prognostic markers for breast cancer.

   The miRNA screening process employed in the present study may be
   described as a layer-by-layer filtering method, which differs from the
   methods used in other studies that screened miRNAs with a certain
   index. For instance, Yin et al. [[113]15] downloaded and collected
   miRNA and mRNA expression data from TCGA database, and identified the
   abnormally expressed miRNAs and mRNAs in breast cancer by comparing
   tumor samples with normal adjacent tissues, followed by the calculation
   of the Spearman's correlation coefficient to predict target genes and
   highlight the miRNAs associated with breast cancer. This study only
   involved differential expression, did not combine the survival time of
   patients, and had a large probability of false positives.

   We studied the mechanism underlying the effects of the 3 selected
   miRNAs and found that the expression of miR-148b-3p, miR-190b, and
   miR-429 was high in TCGA database; however, no significant difference
   was observed in the expression of these 3 miRNAs between the cancer and
   normal groups in the validation set. The expression of miRNAs varied
   between different types of breast cancers, and as the number of samples
   we collected was insufficient, no significant difference was reported
   between groups; however, the changing trend in the expression patterns
   of these miRNAs was consistent with that observed in TCGA database.
   Similarly, some differences in expression patterns were also observed
   among different breast cancer cell lines. In comparison with the normal
   breast cell line MCF-10A, MCF-7, T47D, MDA-MB-468, and HCC1806 cells
   showed overexpression of miR-148b-3p, miR-190b, and miR-429, whereas
   the expression of these miRNAs was downregulated in MDA-MB-231 cells,
   consistent with the previously reported observations
   [[114]16,[115]17,[116]18]. We carried out Kaplan-Meier analysis in
   different breast cancer subtypes based on TCGA database and found that
   the patients with high miR-190b expression had better OS than those
   with low miR-190b expression in luminal A, basal-like, and normal
   breast-like groups; however, the patients from luminal B and HER2
   groups with high miR-190b expression had poor OS. These observations
   suggest that the biological and clinical implications of miRNAs may
   differ among breast cancer subtypes [[117]16,[118]17,[119]18].

   The results reported for the miRNA miR-148b-3p, encoded on chromosome
   12q13.13, showed similarities as well as discrepancies with the
   previously reported data. Differences in experimental settings and
   materials may have contributed to different results. As observed
   herein, the expression of miR-148b-3p was shown to be upregulated in
   the blood plasma of patients with breast cancer [[120]19] and was high
   in luminal samples [[121]17]. However, another study showed that
   miR-148b expression was downregulated in the serum samples from
   patients with breast cancer [[122]20]. miR-148b was identified as a
   relapse-associated miRNA and was shown to suppress breast cancer
   progression by targeting a series of cancer-related oncogenes
   [[123]21]. These results suggest the complex role of miR-148b-3p that
   may be dependent on different tissue and cell types. Further functional
   studies are warranted to characterize the potential role of miR-148b-3p
   in breast cancer.

   Few studies have reported the implications of miR-190b expression in
   breast cancer. miR-190b was associated with estrogen-positive breast
   cancer [[124]16] and hormone therapy resistance [[125]22]. de
   Anda-Jáuregui et al. [[126]23] recently identified miR-190b among 5
   other miRNAs as a small set of miRNAs expressed in the breast cancer
   network; these authors proposed the important role of this mRNA set in
   the control of biological functions dysregulated in breast cancer.
   Naorem et al. [[127]24] reported the dysregulated miRNAs, including
   miR-190b, in triple-negative breast cancer using a meta-analysis
   approach. However, none of these studies explored the role of miR-190b.
   In the present study, we reported that the overexpression of miR-190b
   may significantly promote the proliferation and migration of MDA-MB-468
   and T47D cells and reduce the apoptosis of T47D cells. In contrast,
   Cizeron-Clairac et al. [[128]16] showed that miR-190b may probably have
   no effect on cell proliferation. This discrepancy may be related to the
   differences in the transfection efficiency.

   As a member of the miR-200 family, miR-429 plays several complex roles
   in the occurrence and development of cancer. miR-429 was overexpressed
   in MCF-7, T47D, MDA-MB-468, and HCC1806 cells but showed downregulated
   expression in MDA-MB-231 and SK-BR-3 cells, consistent with the results
   reported in previous studies [[129]18,[130]25]. We analyzed cell
   proliferation and migration and found that the overexpression of
   miR-429 could significantly promote the proliferation and migration of
   MDA-MB-468 and T47D cells. Some studies found that the re-expression of
   one or more miR-200 family members may reduce cell proliferation and
   migration [[131]26,[132]27]. However, miR-200 family members were also
   shown to enhance mammary tumor cell migration
   [[133]28,[134]29,[135]30]. This discrepancy may be related to the
   differences in the cell lines and cancer subtypes analyzed. So, miRNAs
   were expressed in a cell type-specific and cancer subtype-specific
   manner.

   To investigate the underlying mechanisms of action of miR-148b-3p,
   miR-190b, and miR-429, we used 9 online databases and predicted the
   target genes. Only the target genes predicted by at least 4 algorithms
   were chosen and subsequently used for GO and pathway enrichment
   analyses to explore the potential effects. The results revealed that
   the targets of these dysregulated miRNAs were involved in many critical
   cancer-related biological processes and pathways such as TGF-beta
   signaling pathway, Wnt signaling pathway, p53 pathway, p38 MAPK
   pathway, and mTOR signaling pathway. Thus, these miRNAs may not only
   act as biomarkers for breast cancer but may also be considered as
   targets for the development of new therapies.

   To avoid the contingency caused by small sample size, this study
   included 1,083 breast cancer samples and 104 normal breast tissue
   samples from TCGA database. Therefore, the bias was reduced, and the
   screened miRNAs were more representative candidates. The present study,
   however, has several limitations. First, although the basic cellular
   function of the 3 selected miRNAs was validated herein, the exact
   target genes and pathways and the mechanism underlying their effects on
   the survival time of patients were incompletely understood. Second, the
   expression profiling of these 3 miRNAs was based on clinical tissues.
   Circulating miRNAs have several advantages as biomarkers; hence, it is
   necessary to detect the expression of these 3 miRNAs in the peripheral
   blood of patients. At the same time, it is important to expand clinical
   samples, improve clinical information, and analyze their correlation
   with pathological index of patients.

   In summary, we identified that miR-148b-3p, miR-190b, and miR-429 may
   serve as potential breast cancer biomarkers using high-throughput data
   analysis from TCGA dataset. We also discovered that these 3 miRNAs
   affect breast cancer cell proliferation, apoptosis, and migration.
   However, multicenter studies with large sample sizes are warranted to
   validate our findings and further investigation of the roles of these 3
   miRNAs is necessary.

Footnotes

   Funding: This work was supported by the National Natural Science
   Foundation of China (grant number 81560451).

   Conflict of Interest: The authors declare that they have no competing
   interests.
   Author Contributions:
     * Conceptualization: Tang W, Sheng M.
     * Data curation: Dai W, He J, Tang W.
     * Formal analysis: Dai W, He J, Tang W.
     * Funding acquisition: Dai W.
     * Investigation: Zheng L, Bi M, Hu F.
     * Resources: Chen M, Niu H, Yang J.
     * Validation: Sheng M.
     * Visualization: Dai W, He J.
     * Writing - original draft: Dai W, He J, Sheng M.
     * Writing - review & editing: Luo Y, Tang W.

SUPPLEMENTARY MATERIALS

   Supplementary Table 1

   Differentially expressed miRNAs
   [136]jbc-22-219-s001.xls^ (35.5KB, xls)
   Supplementary Table 2

   Target genes for 3 miRNAs
   [137]jbc-22-219-s002.xls^ (55KB, xls)
   Supplementary Table 3

   GO functional annotation and pathway analyses of has-miR-148b-3p
   [138]jbc-22-219-s003.xls^ (68.5KB, xls)
   Supplementary Table 4

   GO functional annotation and pathway analyses of has-miR-190b
   [139]jbc-22-219-s004.xls^ (60.5KB, xls)
   Supplementary Table 5

   GO functional annotation and pathway analyses of has-miR-429
   [140]jbc-22-219-s005.xls^ (61KB, xls)
   Supplementary Figure 1

   Kaplan-Meier survival curves showing different overall survival in
   groups of patients with low and high miRNAs expression.
   [141]jbc-22-219-s006.ppt^ (3.3MB, ppt)
   Supplementary Figure 2

   Expression level of has-miR-148b-3p (A), has-miR-190b (B), has-miR-429
   (C) in different breast cancer subtypes.
   [142]jbc-22-219-s007.ppt^ (2.5MB, ppt)
   Supplementary Figure 3

   Prognostic value of has-miR-148b-3p (A), has-miR-190b (B), and
   has-miR-429 (C) in breast cancer subtypes varies among different
   subtypes.
   [143]jbc-22-219-s008.ppt^ (1.2MB, ppt)
   Supplementary Figure 4

   In MDA-MB-468 (A) and T47D (B) cell lines, expression of miRNAs was
   significantly increased by miRNAs mimics but was decreased by miRNAs
   inhibitors compared with the corresponding control.
   [144]jbc-22-219-s009.ppt^ (1.1MB, ppt)

References
